### introduction

problems in AI
- NN not resilient to adversarial changes
- three wave of AI
  - rule based, explain causality, does not deal with noise and uncertainty
  - deal with uncertainty, hard to explain the decisions, not ensured reliablility and safety
  - combine both approaches? symbolic and probabilistic
- this course: understand attacking and defending, prove a safe fair and robust network, combine logic and NN
  - attacks and defenses, trade-off of accuracy and robustness
    - robustness: returns correct output on all inputs
    - local robustness: output similar correct thing to those in the training set

questions
- robust for some perturbation in a specific setting
  - or we are making the model accurate on meaningless points?
- realist attacks?
- summarize adv examples?
- adv examples mean lack of generalization?

mathematically guarantee
- infinite number of possibel attacks, can not enumerate, even in concrete case
- summarize into symbolic finite region
  - pushing the regions through the network
  - then look at the final region, if the regions work, then the network works, otherwise nothing can be said about ther network
    - `cause some useless regions are also included for simplicity of computing -> scale without garbage points?
- study SOTA convex approximations, verify E2E robustness against audio geometric and norm-based attacks
- not trained to be defensive -> cannot prove some properties
  - train the network to be provable?
  - back propagation using the symbolic region? which loss
    - idea: make the intermediate shape smaller -> less garbage, better property
    - start from a small region, then enlarge the region step by step?
  - problem: sparsify the network, lose accuracy
    - less things affect the symbolic region, good for symbolic optimization
    - both accurate and provable?

course project
- verification of NN
- group of 2
- Python, automatically graded

exploring learning and logic, diffential privacy and statistical robustenss
- query for adv examples
- comparing NN
- train on labeled data, s.t. unlabeled data are robust -> improve accuracy

this course
- latest and most important safety and reliability
- core and general concepts
- some basic DL and Python required
- 70% exam, 30% course project
- exercises: reconmended